.TH ARCHINSTOO 1 "2026-02-20" "archinstoo" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
archinstoo \- Arch Linux guided installer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B archinstoo
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
archinstoo is a guided installer for Arch Linux. It provides a TUI-based
menu system for configuring and installing Arch Linux systems.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-script \fINAME\fR
Script to run (default: guided). Use \fB\-\-script list\fR to see available scripts.
.TP
.B \-\-config \fIPATH\fR
Path to a local JSON configuration file.
.TP
.B \-\-config\-url \fIURL\fR
URL to a remote JSON configuration file.
.TP
.B \-\-dry\-run
Generate config and exit without installing.
.TP
.B \-\-mountpoint \fIPATH\fR
Alternate mount point (default: /mnt).
.TP
.B \-\-skip\-ntp
Skip NTP time sync check.
.TP
.B \-\-skip\-wkd
Skip archlinux-keyring WKD sync.
.TP
.B \-\-skip\-boot
Skip bootloader installation.
.TP
.B \-\-offline
Disable online package search.
.TP
.B \-\-advanced
Enable advanced menu options.
.TP
.B \-\-debug
Enable debug logging.
.TP
.B \-\-clean
Clean logs/ after run.
.TP
.B \-h\fR, \fB\-\-help
Show help message.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I logs/install.log
Main installation log.
.TP
.I logs/user_configuration.json
Saved configuration.
.TP
.I logs/cmd_history.txt
Command history.
.TP
.I logs/cmd_output.txt
Raw command output.
.SH EXAMPLES
Run the guided installer:
.PP
.RS
archinstoo
.RE
.PP
Use a saved configuration:
.PP
.RS
archinstoo \-\-config /path/to/config.json
.RE
.PP
Dry run to generate config:
.PP
.RS
archinstoo \-\-dry\-run
.RE
.PP
See available scripts:
.PP
.RS
archinstoo \-\-script list
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
Project: https://github.com/h8d13/archinstoo
